root volume is that volume in which os are stored
our ebs volume (persistent volume),attached by network to our server.instance storage is temporarry storage.
encrypted means when someone hack your server so your data we in the form of machine language, the hacker can not be read our data.
ami's are used as backups and there like har kisi ke saath adjust ho jati hai chahe uska reason alag kyu na ho what inside store in that amis,
automatically going forward to new instance of any region
amis contain os system, backups, some preinstall software and detail about snapshorts. 
when you terminate your instance the root volume will be deleted but your attach volume not deleted.


EBS is that volume which are restricted to your instance. It have fixed storage whether you store 1gb of data,
and need to select 8gb or 4 gb according to your work.
EBS has os data some software data and some working data.

when you need more storage, You need to create a volume, Step are given down.
click on Elastic Block Store (which is located at left down cornor (EC2) ).
click volume
click on create volume
Size (GiB)
10
 **Availability Zone** (according to your availability zone choose it ) this is very very import option.
ap-south-1a (mumbai) 
click on Create volume
this massage (Successfully created volume vol-0b4d49fc28e1ce3d0.) will be showing.
you want to associate this volume with your instance, select those volume 
click action 
click attach volume 
Instance
select you instance
Device name (you choose any of them in list)
/dev/sdb
Attach volume

go to your instace select those instance drop down
in storage section 
see Block devices
here you you new volume showing along with root volume.
Note :- Delete on termination(Yes or No) means that Yes means when you delete your instance, your stored data detele with it.
No mean data wil be safe not delete when you terminate your instance.

**If you want to use those storage you need to mount with your instance.
so Connect your instance apply some commands that is given below.

lsblk -f (To see the storages)
df -h
sudo mkfs -t xfs /dev/xvdb
lsblk -f
sudo mkdir /data
sudo mount /dev/xvdb /data
:::: Now you will see the mountpoints that you'll successfully mounted.
lsblk -f
df -h
::Now you will see the new storage are added to use.
cd /data 
sudo touch abs.txt
ll 

-------------------------------------------
Create AMIs or Image to backup your instace 
select instance
click on action
click on image and templates
click on create image

Image name
:-backuuu (give according to you, what you want  to given)
Image description - optional
this_is_my_945_727_backup
click on create image

in Images section
click on AMIs
and your image showing now 
Note this image are used further to made your instance if you want.

if you want to copy this image in any other region to use when you make your instance.

select image 
click on action
click copy AMI
choose Destination Region
drop down 
click on Copy AMI
if you want check that whether it is copied successfully go to that region 
go to images section click AMIs and your copied AMIs is showing there, you can use it.
----------------------------

Now to create backups, In other words called snapshot
Go to this  Elastic Block Store section.
click on snapshot (Note:- this is a time based snapshot).
clic on Create snapshot
Resource type
choose ( volume or instance)
i choose instace

Instance ID (choose instace Id)

Snapshot details
Description
instace (whatever you want to write)
click on Create snapshot
if you want to copy that snapshot for use in any region 
just simpaly select those snapshot 
click on action 
select copy snapshot

select your Destination Region (In which region you want to copied)
click on Copy snapshot
if you want check that whether it is copied successfully go to that region 
go to images section click snapshot and your copied  is snapshot showing there, you can use it.



----------------------------------

you want to detach that volumes, Volumes click action detach volume 
you want to detach that AMIs, click action deragister AMIs. 

If you want to delete snapshot select snapshot 
click action 
click on delete snapshot
delete 
