Firstly make Two instance by the following commands
first give name 
select os system, I choose Amazon Linux
rest as it's.
select intance type like t2.micro
choose key pair
rest as it's except Firewall( Security groups)
In this select... Create Security group
Right tick on Allow SSH Traffic from 
Right tick on Allow HTTPS traffic from the internet
Right tick on Allow HTTP traffic from the internet

No need to Configure Storage 
In summery section 
Number of instances 
2

click on Launch instance

rename both the instance and give the names like 1 & 2.
then connect the both 

after that search "security groups" on search bar. (for EC2 Future).
click on which Security group ID who connect to your instances.
click on Edit inbound rules
scroll down click add rule
In Type select NFS.
In Source select your instance source (Security group).
rest as it is.
Click on Save rules

Apply the the below commands your both instances. one by one. 
df -h
sudo yum install -y amazon-efs-utils

on 1 instance 
sudo mkdir /dir1
on 2 instance
sudo mkdir /dir2

go to the EFS
click on your already build EFS file.
click on Attach ( here some commands showing )
Copy the below command which is in the section of Using the EFS mount helper:

sudo mount -t efs -o tls fs-04c703b2c5bdb1a12:/ efs (edit efs as /dir1 for 1 and /dir2 for 2.)
then apply above command after edit.
wait for some time until the new command line opens in the terminal.

df -h 

you will see the dir1 on 1 instance has been mounted successfully.

df -h 

you will see the dir2 on 2 instance has been mounted successfully.

In instance 2
cd /dir2
sudo touch hello.txt
ls

Go to your instance 1
cd /dir1
ls
you will see the hello.txt 

So You think you made the file on the instance 2 in /dir2 But It is also showing
in /dir1 without any make file. Therefore, It means that, EFS share the data because you have only
one EFS file system which attached with both the instances so It is happening.
Note:- It is only used with Linux Operating System 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Amazon FSx (It used with varity of systems and it very fast, reliable)

Go to search bar and search FSx
click on Create file system
In File system options choose 

Amazon FSx for Lustre

click next

File system name - optional
name as you wish, I give buddy

Deployment and storage class
Persistent, SSD
uncheck with EFA enabled (if checked)

Storage capacity
1.2

Data compression type
LZ4

VPC Security Groups
choose your security groups with default security group.

Subnet Info
check this, if it is right Zone then no need to change if not then change it.

Search the security group, in the search bar. and right click on it. open in new tap .
kind in mind click only on EC2 security group.
click on Security group ID	

Edit inbound rules

click on add rule
Type :- Custom TCP
Port range :- 988
Source type :- Custom
source :- custom and select your security group

click on add rule
Type :- Custom TCP
Port range :- 1018-1023
Source type :- Custom
source :- custom and select your security group

save rules

Go to you EFx 
then click next
Scroll down 
click on Create file system

click on file system ID

click on Attach 

Go to your 1 & 2 instance  and apply below command

sudo dnf install -y lustre-client

Go to your 1 instance and apply below command
sudo mkdir /fsx1
sudo mount -t lustre -o relatime,flock fs-08ec2a7a5d18259a1.fsx.ap-south-1.amazonaws.com@tcp:/ijwt3bev /fsx1
df -h (you will see the /fsx1 on 1 instance has been mounted successfully)

Go to you 2 instance apply below command
sudo mkdir /fsx2
sudo mount -t lustre -o relatime,flock fs-08ec2a7a5d18259a1.fsx.ap-south-1.amazonaws.com@tcp:/ijwt3bev /fsx2
df -h (you will see the /fsx2 on 2 instance has been mounted successfully)

Go to your 2 instance and  apply below commnads
cd /fsx2/
sudo touch file123.txt
ls

Go to your 1 instance and  apply below commnads
cd /fsx1/

ls

you will see the file123.txt 

So You think you made the file on the instance 2 in /Fsx2 But It is also showing
in /FSx1 without any make file. Therefore, It means that, FSx share the data because you have only
one FSx file system which attached with both the instances so It is happening.


----------------------------------------------------------------------------
on 1 instance For unmount the File system from your instance just apply the below commands. 


df -h 
cd

sudo unmount /fsx1
sudo unmount /dir1

df -h 
on 2 instance For unmount the File system from your instance just apply the below commands.

df -h 
cd

sudo unmount /fsx1
sudo unmount /dir1

df -h

then you will able to delete the file system .



END!!
