6th Nov 2024


EFS stands for Elastic file system. it means that when you create or used that file system
you add the data into this file this file storage adjust according to your data size. NO need to 
pre determined the size of that volume.
To create EFS follow the below steps.

Search EFS in your search bar 
click on EFS
click on Create file system
Name - optional 
buddy (this name given by your wish)
Customize :- if you want to edit you efs system according to your use case then click this option, if not 
click create file system 

in Lifecycle management
Transition into Infrequent Access (IA)
14 day(s) since last access

Transition into Archive
90 day(s) since last access

Transition into Standard
On first access

click next

In Network access (NO need to changes, if your work with several or your own subnet or security group then you
need to change).

click next

click next

scroll down and click on create

that's it...


7th Nov 2024


Firstly make Two instance by the following commands
first give name 
select os system, I choose Amazon Linux
rest as it's.
select intance type like t2.micro
choose key pair
rest as it's except Firewall( Security groups)
In this select... Create Security group
Right tick on Allow SSH Traffic from 
Right tick on Allow HTTPS traffic from the internet
Right tick on Allow HTTP traffic from the internet

No need to Configure Storage 
In summery section 
Number of instances 
2

click on Launch instance

rename both the instance and give the names like 1 & 2.
then connect the both 

after that search "security groups" on search bar. (for EC2 Future).
click on which Security group ID who connect to your instances.
click on Edit inbound rules
scroll down click add rule
In Type select NFS.
In Source select your instance source (Security group).
rest as it is.
Click on Save rules

Apply the the below commands your both instances. one by one. 
df -h
sudo yum install -y amazon-efs-utils

on 1 instance 
sudo mkdir /dir1
on 2 instance
sudo mkdir /dir2

go to the EFS
click on your already build EFS file.
click on Attach ( here some commands showing )
Copy the below command which is in the section of Using the EFS mount helper:

sudo mount -t efs -o tls fs-04c703b2c5bdb1a12:/ efs (edit efs as /dir1 for 1 and /dir2 for 2.)
then apply above command after edit.
wait for some time until the new command line opens in the terminal.

df -h 

you will see the dir1 on 1 instance has been mounted successfully.

df -h 

you will see the dir2 on 2 instance has been mounted successfully.

In instance 2
cd /dir2
sudo touch hello.txt
ls

Go to your instance 1
cd /dir1
ls
you will see the hello.txt 

So You think you made the file on the instance 2 in /dir2 But It is also showing
in /dir1 without any make file. Therefore, It means that, EFS share the data because you have only
one EFS file system which attached with both the instances so It is happening.
Note:- It is only used with Linux Operating System.